Orbit 2 release prep (#94)
babylonhealth/orbit-mvi: orbit-2-core/README.md

# Orbit 2 Core

This is the core module for the Orbit 2 framework. It's worth familiarising

> yourself with the [overview documentation](docs/orbit-2-overview.md) before

Author: this link doesn't exist

reading this section.

The core module provides all the basic parts of Orbit:

- Public API
- Core DSL
- Plugin registry
- Container implementation

## Architecture

![Orbit 2 overview 1](docs/orbit-2-overview-1.svg)

This diagram shows a simple representation of how an Orbit system (or similar
systems like MVI/Redux/Cycle) works in simple principles.

1. The UI sends actions asynchronously to some business component
1. The business component applies some business logic to the incoming events

> 1. The business component then emits some events further down the chain

Author: would probably avoid the use of the word "some" throughout this... plus would it help to use some of the language of thee library here too?

```
1. The UI sends actions asynchronously to a business component
1. The business component transforms the incoming events with business logic
1. The business component then emits these events further down the chain
```

1. Every event is reduced with the current state of the system to produce a new
   state
1. The state is then emitted back to the UI which renders itself based upon
   information within

The main thing to remember is that the UI cannot make any business decisions
by itself. It should know only how to render itself based on the input state.

### Orbit concepts

![Orbit 2 overview 2](docs/orbit-2-overview-2.svg)

We can map the above logic onto real components.

1. UI invokes functions on a class implementing the `ContainerHost` interface
1. The functions call through to a `Container` instance through the `orbit`
   DSL function
1. Transformers apply business logic that transforms function parameters into
   single or multiple events
1. The reducer reduces the current state of the system with the incoming events
   to produce new states
1. The new state is sent to observers

Notes:

> - UI can be an `Activity`, `Fragment` or a simple `View`. An Orbit system can

Author: I'd move this note into the statement about UI above.

```
1. UI invokes functions on a class implementing the `ContainerHost` interface. Typically in Android this might be an Activity, Fragment or a simple View. However, an Orbit system can also be run without any UI, for example as a background service.
```

  run even without any UI at all! Think of it as a background service.

> - Orbit operators are applied within the `orbit` DSL function block

Author: This and the last one could be mentioned as part of the second point above. My only other comment though is it's not clear what the "Orbit operators" are.

- All Orbit operators are optional.

### Side effects

> In the real world such a system cannot exist with side effects. For example,

Author: ```suggestion
In the real world such a system cannot exist without side effects. For example,
```

Author: Also, I'm not sure if this is that obvious what a side effect actually is. i.e we don't really define it not that I know quite how you'd define it though!

navigation between screens can be considered a side effect. As such there's a
third Orbit operator that can deal with side effects.

![Orbit 2 overview 3](docs/orbit-2-overview-3.svg)

The UI does not have to be aware of all side effects (e.g. why should the UI
care if you send analytics events?). As such you can have side effects that do
not post any event back to the UI.

## Including the module

Orbit 2 is a modular framework. You will need this module to get started!

Additional functionality is provided through plugins included in separate

> modules. Install only what you need!

Author: ```suggestion
modules.
```

Don't think it makes sense to say it here

```kotlin
implementation("com.babylon.orbit2:orbit-core:<latest-version>")
```

## Orbit container

A [Container](src/main/java/com/babylon/orbit2/Container.kt) is the heart of

> the Orbit MVI system. It retains the state, allows you to listen to side effect

Author: ```suggestion
the Orbit MVI system. It retains the state, allows you to listen to side effects
```

and state updates and allows you to modify the state through the `orbit`

> function which executes DSL operators of your desired business logic.

Author: elsewhere you refer to `DSL operators` as `Orbit operators`, I think I prefer the latter as I'm not sure everyone will understand what a DSL is. There are a few instances of this within the text we should tidy up

### ContainerHost

A [ContainerHost](src/main/java/com/babylon/orbit2/ContainerHost.kt) is not
strictly required to work with an Orbit
[Container](src/main/java/com/babylon/orbit2/Container.kt), but it simplifies

> and organises access to it. A Host typically defines Orbit flows (chains of DSL

Author: We are talking about a `ContainerHost` here, how does that relate to `Host`? Should this be saying ContainerHost instead?

operators to be invoked on the container) as functions that can be called by
e.g. the UI.

> In a typical implementation one would subclass Android's `ViewModel` along with
> implementing `ContainerHost` in order to create an Orbit-enabled Android
> `ViewModel`.

Author: ```suggestion
In a typical implementation you would subclass Android's `ViewModel` and
implement `ContainerHost` in order to create an Orbit-enabled Android
`ViewModel`.
```

> ## DSL plugin registry

Author: Drop the word DSL throughout? Will make the text a little cleaner

```suggestion
## Plugin registry
```

Modules like `orbit-coroutines` or `orbit-rxjava2` contain plugins that extend
Orbit's DSL. In order for Orbit to recognise these plugins, they need to be
installed at runtime, like so:

``` kotlin
class MyApplication : Application() {
    override fun onCreate() {
        OrbitDslPlugins.register(
            CoroutineDslPlugin,
            RxJava2DslPlugin
        )
    }
}
```

The core syntax DSL plugin (`transform/sideEffect/reduce`) works out of the box
and does not need to be explicitly installed.

> ## Core DSL Operators

Author: ```suggestion
## Core operators
```

> The Core DSL contains the following operators:

Author: ```suggestion
The following operators are built-in:
```

- transform
- sideEffect
- reduce

Transformers, side effects and reducers are invoked via simple DSL operators.
Operators are invoked via the `orbit` function in a `ContainerHost` (or, less
commonly, a `Container` directly)

``` kotlin
data class ExampleState(val seen: List<String> = emptyList())

sealed class ExampleSideEffect {
   data class Toast(val text: String)
}

class ExampleViewModel : ContainerHost<ExampleState, ExampleSideEffect>, ViewModel() {
    override val container = Container.create<ExampleState, ExampleSideEffect>(ExampleState())

    fun example(number: Int) = orbit {
       transform {
          number.toString()
       }
         .sideEffect { post(ExampleSideEffect.Toast(event)) }
         .reduce { currentState.copy(seen = currentState.seen + event) }
    }
}
```

Aside from the three DSL functions already mentioned, more operators are
provided via plugins providing e.g. support for `RxJava2` or Kotlin
`Coroutines`. In theory Orbit can work with any async and streaming framework -

> plugins can be created easily.

Author: we don't really mention how any of these core operators run.. i.e. blocking the current thread or not

    }

    fun anotherExample(number: Int) = orbit {
        transform { apiCall() }
            .reduce { state.copy(results = event.results) }
    }
}
```

Reducers take incoming events and the current state to produce a new state.

Reducers are pass-through operators. This means that after applying
a reducer, the upstream event is passed through unmodified to downstream
operators. This helps avoid having to create intermediate objects to retain
upstream events.

Operators downstream of a reducer can expect to be called only after the
upstream reduction has completed.

### Side effect

``` kotlin
class ExampleViewModel : ContainerHost<ExampleState, ExampleSideEffect> {
    ...

    fun example(number: Int) = orbit {
        sideEffect { trackSomething() }
    }

    fun anotherExample(number: Int) = orbit {
        transform { apiCall() }
            .sideEffect { post(ExampleSideEffect.Toast("event $event")) }
            .reduce { state.copy(results = event.results) }
    }
}
```

Working with any system will eventually generate side effects. We've made them a
first class citizen in Orbit.

This functionality is commonly used for things like truly one-off events,

> navigation, logging, analytics etc.

Author: this feels like a better explanation here than in the overview of side effects

You may use the `post` method within `sideEffect` in order to send the value to
a container's side effect stream. Use this for view-related side effects like

> Toasts, Navigation, etc.

Author: Toasts don't need to be side effects though? its just slightly more work!

Side effects are pass-through operators. This means that after applying
a side effect, the upstream event is passed through unmodified to downstream
operators. This helps avoid having to create intermediate objects to retain
upstream events.

### Operator context

Commonly in an operator you need two things:

- The current state of the container
- The upstream event

Each Orbit operator lambda has a receiver that exposes the above as fields:

- `state`
- `event`

**The state is captured at the point when the operator lambda is called by the
Orbit container.** It will not change between invocations within the same

> operator.

Author: the wording here is a little confusing imo.
```
Inside an operator invocation the same state value will be returned regardless of what may be changing it in other threads.
```

Examples of using the exposed fields:

``` kotlin
perform("Toast the current state")
class ExampleViewModel : ContainerHost<ExampleState, ExampleSideEffect> {
    ...

    fun anotherExample(number: Int) = orbit {
        transform { apiCall() }
            .sideEffect { post(ExampleSideEffect.Toast("state $state")) }
            .reduce { state.copy(results = event.results) }
    }
}
```

## Container factories

``` kotlin
perform("Toast the current state")
class ExampleViewModel : ContainerHost<ExampleState, ExampleSideEffect> {
    override val container = Container.create<ExampleState, ExampleSideEffect>(ExampleState()) {

>         onCreate

Author: this should be `onCreate()`?

    }

    fun onCreate() = orbit {
        ...
    }
}
```

Containers are typically not created directly but through convenient factory
functions. This allows you to pass through extra settings or a lambda to invoke

> when he container is first created (important for containers that can be

Author: ```suggestion
when the container is first created (important for containers that can be
```
